So, now that we know that we are going to
store our tables after ETL into a dimensional model,
let's take a recap about dimension modeling.
So, we know that the third normal form databases are
actually optimized for consistency and deduplication,
and it might be hard to explain to business users,
and shall we do the queries from a schema like that,
we would actually incur lots of expensive joins.
While, actually what we want to do is to work with
star schemas which have been covered briefly in the previous course.
But what we need to do is,
what we need to know is that they good for OLAP and not for OLTP.
So, we know that we have fact tables and they
record business events like an order, a phone call,
a book review, and that fact table columns
record events recorded in quantifiable metrics.
So, like quantity of an item,
duration of a call,
a book rating, and so forth.
Dimensional table, they record the context of a business like who, what, where,
and the columns of them are called attributes,
like the store at which an item is purchased
or the customer who made the call or so forth.
Sometimes it's not very clear what's a fact and what's a dimension,
I would say we should look at the facts first.
So, if you're not sure,
a fact column is always going to be numeric and additive in 99 percent of the cases.
For example, a comment on an article,
someone commented on an article, is actually an event.
One might think that this is a fact that should be recorded,
while it is actually,
but the thing is without
really strong NLP skills or a little bit of sentiment analysis or something like that,
you will not be able to just add,
maybe you add the number of comments.
The number of comments itself might be a fact,
but just getting the text and making sense out of it is not that simple,
so that's not a good fact.
The invoice number is numeric,
but I will not going to add the invoice numbers together.
The total amount paid in an invoice and the number of items in that invoice,
these could be added to compute total sales,
and that's actually a good fact.
So, numeric and additive is your litmus test for
knowing whether a particular column should be in the fact table or not.
Then you have the dimensions,
and the tricks are date and time are always a dimension,
physical locations like stores and so forth,
and addressees and things alike,
are good candidates for dimensions.
Human roles, whether someone is a customer or
staff or a teacher or student or something like this.
Goods sold or courses taught or something of
that sort also is a good candidate for dimension.